# ASVS - missing points

## Group 2 (22 itens)
- V2.4.1 [L2] [In Progress] - Anti-automation controls are in place to protect against excessive calls to application functions that could lead to data exfiltration, garbage-data creation, quota exhaustion, rate-limit breaches, denial-of-service, or overuse of costly resources.
- V5.2.6 [L3] [Not Started] - The application rejects uploaded images with a pixel size larger than the maximum allowed, to prevent pixel flood attacks.
- V6.2.1 [L1] [Not Started] - User set passwords are at least 8 characters in length although a minimum of 15 characters is strongly recommended.
- V6.2.5 [L1] [Not Started] - Passwords of any composition can be used, without rules limiting the type of characters permitted. There must be no requirement for a minimum number of upper or lower case characters, numbers, or special characters.
- V6.3.2 [L1] [Not Started] - Default user accounts (e.g., "root", "admin", or "sa") are not present in the application or are disabled.
- V6.3.8 [L3] [Not Started] - Valid users cannot be deduced from failed authentication challenges, such as by basing on error messages, HTTP response codes, or different response times. Registration and forgot password functionality must also have this protection.
- V7.4.1 [L1] [Not Started] - When session termination is triggered (such as logout or expiration), the application disallows any further use of the session. For reference tokens or stateful sessions, this means invalidating the session data at the application backend. Applications using self-contained tokens will need a solution such as maintaining a list of terminated tokens, disallowing tokens produced before a per-user date and time or rotating a per-user signing key.
- V7.5.1 [L2] [Not Started] - The application requires full re-authentication before allowing modifications to sensitive account attributes which may affect authentication such as email address, phone number, MFA configuration, or other information used in account recovery.
- V11.1.2 [L2] [In Progress] - A cryptographic inventory is performed, maintained, regularly updated, and includes all cryptographic keys, algorithms, and certificates used by the application. It must also document where keys can and cannot be used in the system, and the types of data that can and cannot be protected using the keys.
- V11.3.2 [L1] [In Progress] - Only approved ciphers and modes such as AES with GCM are used.
- V12.1.1 [L1] [Not Started] - Only the latest recommended versions of the TLS protocol are enabled, such as TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3. The latest version of the TLS protocol must be the preferred option.
- V12.2.2 [L1] [Not Started] - External facing services use publicly trusted TLS certificates.
- V12.3.4 [L2] [Not Started] - TLS connections between internal services use trusted certificates. Where internally generated or self-signed certificates are used, the consuming service must be configured to only trust specific internal CAs and specific self-signed certificates.
- V15.1.1 [L1] [Not Started] - Application documentation defines risk based remediation time frames for 3rd party component versions with vulnerabilities and for updating libraries in general, to minimize the risk from these components.
- V15.1.5 [L3] [Not Started] - Application documentation highlights parts of the application where "dangerous functionality" is being used.
- V15.2.4 [L3] [In Progress] - Third-party components and all of their transitive dependencies are included from the expected repository, whether internally owned or an external source, and that there is no risk of a dependency confusion attack.
- V15.3.4 [L2] [Not Started] - All proxying and middleware components transfer the user's original IP address correctly using trusted data fields that cannot be manipulated by the end user, and the application and web server use this correct value for logging and security decisions such as rate limiting, taking into account that even the original IP address may not be reliable due to dynamic IPs, VPNs, or corporate firewalls.
- V15.4.3 [L3] [Not Started] - Locks are used consistently to avoid threads getting stuck, whether by waiting on each other or retrying endlessly, and that locking logic stays within the code responsible for managing the resource to ensure locks cannot be inadvertently or maliciously modified by external classes or code.
- V16.2.2 [L2] [Not Started] - Time sources for all logging components are synchronized, and that timestamps in security event metadata use UTC or include an explicit time zone offset. UTC is recommended to ensure consistency across distributed systems and to prevent confusion during daylight saving time transitions.
- V16.3.1 [L2] [Not Started] - All authentication operations are logged, including successful and unsuccessful attempts. Additional metadata, such as the type of authentication or factors used, should also be collected.
- V16.4.1 [L2] [Not Started] - All logging components appropriately encode data to prevent log injection.
- V16.5.2 [L2] [Not Started] - The application continues to operate securely when external resource access fails, for example, by using patterns such as circuit breakers or graceful degradation.

## Group 3 (22 itens)
- V4.1.2 [L2] [In Progress] - Only user-facing endpoints (intended for manual web-browser access) automatically redirect from HTTP to HTTPS, while other services or endpoints do not implement transparent redirects. This is to avoid a situation where a client is erroneously sending unencrypted HTTP requests, but since the requests are being automatically redirected to HTTPS, the leakage of sensitive data goes undiscovered.
- V5.4.2 [L2] [In Progress] - File names served (e.g., in HTTP response header fields or email attachments) are encoded or sanitized (e.g., following RFC 6266) to preserve document structure and prevent injection attacks.
- V6.2.2 [L1] [Not Started] - Users can change their password.
- V6.2.11 [L2] [Not Started] - The documented list of context specific words is used to prevent easy to guess passwords being created.
- V6.3.3 [L2] [Not Started] - Either a multi-factor authentication mechanism or a combination of single-factor authentication mechanisms, must be used in order to access the application. For L3, one of the factors must be a hardware-based authentication mechanism which provides compromise and impersonation resistance against phishing attacks while verifying the intent to authenticate by requiring a user-initiated action (such as a button press on a FIDO hardware key or a mobile phone). Relaxing any of the considerations in this requirement requires a fully documented rationale and a comprehensive set of mitigating controls.
- V6.4.1 [L1] [Not Started] - System generated initial passwords or activation codes are securely randomly generated, follow the existing password policy, and expire after a short period of time or after they are initially used. These initial secrets must not be permitted to become the long term password.
- V7.4.2 [L1] [Not Started] - The application terminates all active sessions when a user account is disabled or deleted (such as an employee leaving the company).
- V7.5.2 [L2] [Not Started] - Users are able to view and (having authenticated again with at least one factor) terminate any or all currently active sessions.
- V11.2.2 [L2] [In Progress] - The application is designed with crypto agility such that random number, authenticated encryption, MAC, or hashing algorithms, key lengths, rounds, ciphers and modes can be reconfigured, upgraded, or swapped at any time, to protect against cryptographic breaks. Similarly, it must also be possible to replace keys and passwords and re-encrypt data. This will allow for seamless upgrades to post-quantum cryptography (PQC), once high-assurance implementations of approved PQC schemes or standards are widely available.
- V11.3.3 [L2] [In Progress] - Encrypted data is protected against unauthorized modification preferably by using an approved authenticated encryption method or by combining an approved encryption method with an approved MAC algorithm.
- V12.1.2 [L2] [Not Started] - Only recommended cipher suites are enabled, with the strongest cipher suites set as preferred. L3 applications must only support cipher suites which provide forward secrecy.
- V12.3.1 [L2] [Not Started] - An encrypted protocol such as TLS is used for all inbound and outbound connections to and from the application, including monitoring systems, management tools, remote access and SSH, middleware, databases, mainframes, partner systems, or external APIs. The server must not fall back to insecure or unencrypted protocols.
- V12.3.5 [L3] [In Progress] - Services communicating internally within a system (intra-service communications) use strong authentication to ensure that each endpoint is verified. Strong authentication methods, such as TLS client authentication, must be employed to ensure identity, using public-key infrastructure and mechanisms that are resistant to replay attacks. For microservice architectures, consider using a service mesh to simplify certificate management and enhance security.
- V15.1.2 [L2] [In Progress] - An inventory catalog, such as software bill of materials (SBOM), is maintained of all third-party libraries in use, including verifying that components come from pre-defined, trusted, and continually maintained repositories.
- V15.2.1 [L1] [Not Started] - The application only contains components which have not breached the documented update and remediation time frames.
- V15.2.5 [L3] [Not Started] - The application implements additional protections around parts of the application which are documented as containing "dangerous functionality" or using third-party libraries considered to be "risky components". This could include techniques such as sandboxing, encapsulation, containerization or network level isolation to delay and deter attackers who compromise one part of an application from pivoting elsewhere in the application.
- V15.3.7 [L2] [In Progress] - The application has defenses against HTTP parameter pollution attacks, particularly if the application framework makes no distinction about the source of request parameters (query string, body parameters, cookies, or header fields).
- V15.4.4 [L3] [Not Started] - Resource allocation policies prevent thread starvation by ensuring fair access to resources, such as by leveraging thread pools, allowing lower-priority threads to proceed within a reasonable timeframe.
- V16.2.3 [L2] [Not Started] - The application only stores or broadcasts logs to the files and services that are documented in the log inventory.
- V16.3.2 [L2] [Not Started] - Failed authorization attempts are logged. For L3, this must include logging all authorization decisions, including logging when sensitive data is accessed (without logging the sensitive data itself).
- V16.4.2 [L2] [Not Started] - Logs are protected from unauthorized access and cannot be modified.
- V16.5.3 [L2] [In Progress] - The application fails gracefully and securely, including when an exception occurs, preventing fail-open conditions such as processing a transaction despite errors resulting from validation logic.

## Group 4 (22 itens)
- V4.1.4 [L3] [In Progress] - Only HTTP methods that are explicitly supported by the application or its API (including OPTIONS during preflight requests) can be used and that unused methods are blocked.
- V5.4.3 [L2] [Not Started] - Files obtained from untrusted sources are scanned by antivirus scanners to prevent serving of known malicious content.
- V6.2.3 [L1] [Not Started] - Password change functionality requires the user's current and new password.
- V6.2.12 [L2] [Not Started] - Passwords submitted during account registration or password changes are checked against a set of breached passwords.
- V6.3.5 [L3] [Not Started] - Users are notified of suspicious authentication attempts (successful or unsuccessful). This may include authentication attempts from an unusual location or client, partially successful authentication (only one of multiple factors), an authentication attempt after a long period of inactivity or a successful authentication after several unsuccessful attempts.
- V6.4.3 [L2] [Not Started] - A secure process for resetting a forgotten password is implemented, that does not bypass any enabled multi-factor authentication mechanisms.
- V7.4.3 [L2] [Not Started] - The application gives the option to terminate all other active sessions after a successful change or removal of any authentication factor (including password change via reset or recovery and, if present, an MFA settings update).
- V7.5.3 [L3] [Not Started] - The application requires further authentication with at least one factor or secondary verification before performing highly sensitive transactions or operations.
- V11.2.3 [L2] [In Progress] - All cryptographic primitives utilize a minimum of 128-bits of security based on the algorithm, key size, and configuration. For example, a 256-bit ECC key provides roughly 128 bits of security where RSA requires a 3072-bit key to achieve 128 bits of security.
- V11.4.4 [L2] [In Progress] - The application uses approved key derivation functions with key stretching parameters when deriving secret keys from passwords. The parameters in use must balance security and performance to prevent brute-force attacks from compromising the resulting cryptographic key.
- V12.1.5 [L3] [Not Started] - Encrypted Client Hello (ECH) is enabled in the application's TLS settings to prevent exposure of sensitive metadata, such as the Server Name Indication (SNI), during TLS handshake processes.
- V12.3.2 [L2] [Not Started] - TLS clients validate certificates received before communicating with a TLS server.
- V14.1.1 [L2] [In Progress] - All sensitive data created and processed by the application has been identified and classified into protection levels. This includes data that is only encoded and therefore easily decoded, such as Base64 strings or the plaintext payload inside a JWT. Protection levels need to take into account any data protection and privacy regulations and standards which the application is required to comply with.
- V15.1.3 [L2] [Not Started] - The application documentation identifies functionality which is time-consuming or resource-demanding. This must include how to prevent a loss of availability due to overusing this functionality and how to avoid a situation where building a response takes longer than the consumer's timeout. Potential defenses may include asynchronous processing, using queues, and limiting parallel processes per user and per application.
- V15.2.2 [L2] [In Progress] - The application has implemented defenses against loss of availability due to functionality which is time-consuming or resource-demanding, based on the documented security decisions and strategies for this.
- V15.3.1 [L1] [In Progress] - The application only returns the required subset of fields from a data object. For example, it should not return an entire data object, as some individual fields should not be accessible to users.
- V15.4.1 [L3] [In Progress] - Shared objects in multi-threaded code (such as caches, files, or in-memory objects accessed by multiple threads) are accessed safely by using thread-safe types and synchronization mechanisms like locks or semaphores to avoid race conditions and data corruption.
- V16.1.1 [L2] [Not Started] - An inventory exists documenting the logging performed at each layer of the application's technology stack, what events are being logged, log formats, where that logging is stored, how it is used, how access to it is controlled, and for how long logs are kept.
- V16.2.4 [L2] [Not Started] - Logs can be read and correlated by the log processor that is in use, preferably by using a common logging format.
- V16.3.3 [L2] [Not Started] - The application logs the security events that are defined in the documentation and also logs attempts to bypass the security controls, such as input validation, business logic, and anti-automation.
- V16.4.3 [L2] [Not Started] - Logs are securely transmitted to a logically separate system for analysis, detection, alerting, and escalation. The aim is to ensure that if the application is breached, the logs are not compromised.
- V16.5.4 [L3] [In Progress] - A "last resort" error handler is defined which will catch all unhandled exceptions. This is both to avoid losing error details that must go to log files and to ensure that an error does not take down the entire application process, leading to a loss of availability.